# ProbetheProto
## Overview
We implemented a prototype of ProbetheProto in "Probe the Proto: Measuring Client-Side PrototypePollution Vulnerabilities of One Million Real-world Websites" and evaluated it on one million websites. The research reveals 2,917 zero-day, exploitable prototype pollution vulnerabilities in 2,738 real-world websites—including ten among the top 1,000 Tranco websites. 48 vulnerabilities further lead to XSS, 736 to cookie manipulations, and 830 to URL manipulations. A mostly complete list (excluding some websites that cannot be reached or are still in the process of vulnerability patching) is [here](https://github.com/client-pp/ProbetheProto/blob/main/vul_site_info.md).

This repository contains source codes of ProbetheProto: the Chromium-based dynamic-taint-analysis engine, the Exploit Generator module, the Result Validation module and the Defense analysis module. Should you have any questions about the instructions below, do feel free to create a GitHub issue and we will respond ASAP. 

## Dynamic-Taint-Analysis Engine
The engine is based on Melicher et al.'s work "Riding out DOMsday: Toward Detecting and Preventing DOM Cross-Site Scripting".  https://github.com/wrmelicher/ChromiumTaintTracking

We provide a compiled version of the engine under this link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1NYySaSmhDP-kE4xupcl_TMUKvjfjj7Q9/view?usp=sharing, as well as its source codes under this link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1v-H7DifvlKdjV5lzYfVXJ5XYCrCzaXxp/view?usp=sharing. Please download and unzip the source code tar file here as ```./taint_engine/```, and the compiled version as ```./taint_engine/out/PP/```. You can just download the compiled binary files if you don't need the source code to build from scratch. 

Afterwards, please check ```INSTALL.md``` for installation and compilation instructions; ```CRAWL.md``` for crawling instructions. Besides, you may refer to https://github.com/wrmelicher/ChromiumTaintTracking/blob/master/TAINT_TRACKING_README for installing ```depot_tools```, ```capnp``` (https://capnproto.org) and other necessary issues for setting up the environment. 

**Important:** The engine is only for academic use. It is based on a very old version of Chromium and will run without sandbox, so security and privacy shall suffer. We provide **NO** guarantee about its security and privacy and take **NO** responsibility for any possible consequence if you choose to run it.  

**Important:** ProbetheProto respects ```robots.txt``` during crawling. Every information that we obtained is public, just like a normal web bot. 

## Exploit Generator
ProbetheProto depends on log files generated during crawling by the Chromium-based taint engine. After you have successfully compiled, run the taint engine and then had the log_files generated by it: 

First, do ```cd python-analysis``` and change configurations in ```match_configs.py``` using either ```vim match_configs.py``` or ```nano match_configs.py```. Set the ```stem``` as your root path to this directory, e.g. ```/home/client-pp/Documents/ProbetheProto/python-analysis```. When generating exploits, set ```generating_exploits``` and ```write_to_txt_files``` as ```True```. Remember to always set ```recursive_pp_log_dir``` as the log_file path you assigned in the previous crawling step. (If you keep both of them as the default values, you will be fine! )

Second, run ```python3 generate_exploits.py``` in command line. It only uses popular Python modules so it won't be troublesome speaking of the environment. When it finishes, you should get not only a list of potentially-vulnerable websites but also the exploits for the storage type in ```extensions/cookie_storage_modify_extension/storage_data.js```. To generate exploits for the message type, uncomment line \#321 and comment line \#322 of ```generate_exploits.py``` and run it again. As for the URL-based types, we have a default exploit stored in ```extensions/crawler-extension-pp/content.js```. 

**Important:** The exploits only contain dummy values. Our exploitation posted no real damages to anybody on the web and it happened only at the client-side without in-curring any additional network traffic. We take **NO** responsibility if you change the dummy values to something else on your own. 

Third, before running the result validation, you may consider crawling the discovered websites once more by running:

```sudo bash ./sh/check-pp-auto-recursive.sh 0 1000 2 20```

The parameters ```0 1000 2 20``` share the same meaning as of the command for crawling mentioned in ```taint_engine/crawl.md```, for ```sh/recursive-pp-key1key2-auto.sh```. The engine will crawl the websites with the URL-based exploit and try to pollute the prototype with a dummy value. Certainly no harm will be dealt in such a process when just a dummy value is taken into account. 

Then, try running other two bash scripts for other types: ```sudo bash ./sh/check-pp-auto-recursive.sh 0 1000 2 10``` for the cookie type, and ```sudo bash ./sh/postMessage-auto.sh 0 100 2 1``` for the message type. This step is to simulate an adversary taking control of ```document.cookie```, or being able to pretend as the message origin and send messages via ```postMessage```, in order to pollute the prototype with a dummy value in the target website. Certainly no harm will be dealt in such a process when just a dummy value is taken into account.

## Result Validation
Fourth, do ```cd python-analysis``` and change configurations in ```match_configs.py```. Remember to always set ```check_pp_log_dir``` as the log_file path you assigned in the previous re-crawling step. (If you keep both of them as the default values, you will be fine! )

Fifth, run ```python3 generate_exploits.py``` again. When it finishes, you should get not only a list of vulnerable websites but also the # of vulnerabilities and taint flows. You may also want to change the log path in  ```generate_exploits.py```-- just set ```count_flow_log_file``` as you desired in ```match_configs.py``` and adjust line \#571 of ```generate_exploits.py``` accordingly. Rerun ```python3 generate_exploits.py``` after you apply the changes. 

## Defense analysis
Lastly, if ```generate_exploits.py``` runs with the CONFIG of ```check_other_prototype = True```, you may find in ```count_flow_log_file``` the statistics about \# of taint flows with defense. The result is in Python dict format, whose values follow the form of ```[0, set(), 0, set(), 0, set()]```, where the last two elements contain \# of taint flows with defense and a set of corresponding websites. 

## Miscellaneous
```python-analysis/miscellaneous.py``` envelops useful helper-functions for the evaluation of ProbetheProto. 

```sh/show-load-time-key1key2-1k.sh``` is responsible for acquiring the page load times for the taint engine of ProbetheProto during crawling. 
